merge-enterprise script instructions to resolve outdated branches (#4073)
citusdata/citus: ci/README.md

## `check_enterprise_merge.sh`

This check exists to make sure that we can always merge the `master` branch of
`community` into the `enterprise-master` branch of the `enterprise` repo.
There are two conditions in which this check passes:
1. There are no merge conflicts between your PR branch and `enterprise-master`.
2. There are merge conflicts, but there is a branch with the same name in the
   enterprise repo that:
   1. Contains the last commit of the community branch with the same name.
   2. Merges cleanly into `enterprise-master`

If the job already passes, you are done, nothing further required! Otherwise
follow the below steps.

### Prerequisites

Before continuing with the real steps make sure you have done the following
(this only needs to be done once):

> 1. You have enabled `git rerere` ([docs](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rerere),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You have enabled `git rerere` ([docs](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rerere) in your enterprise repo,
```

Reviewer 2: `git config --global rerere.enabled true` command enables rerere for all repos.

Reviewer: ops, that's true

Reviewer: but I guess, enabling rerere with no global option and only for enterprise repo might be safer I guess ?

Author: I added both options, so someone can choose.

Reviewer 2: Remember when we had merge conflicts on community/release-9.x branches, and again on enterprise/release-9.x. I think it is better to enable it globally.

## `check_enterprise_merge.sh`

This check exists to make sure that we can always merge the `master` branch of
`community` into the `enterprise-master` branch of the `enterprise` repo.
There are two conditions in which this check passes:
1. There are no merge conflicts between your PR branch and `enterprise-master`.
2. There are merge conflicts, but there is a branch with the same name in the
   enterprise repo that:
   1. Contains the last commit of the community branch with the same name.
   2. Merges cleanly into `enterprise-master`

If the job already passes, you are done, nothing further required! Otherwise
follow the below steps.

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer 3: Why is this a prerequisite? This seems more of a nice-to-have

Author: (I assume you mean the `git rerere` part here, not the `community` remote.) I put it as a prerequisite, because if you enable it after the fact it doesn't work. Since it only tracks merges when it's on.

Before continuing with the real steps make sure you have done the following
(this only needs to be done once):
1. You have enabled `git rerere` in globally or in your enterprise repo
   ([docs](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rerere), [very useful blog](https://medium.com/@porteneuve/fix-conflicts-only-once-with-git-rerere-7d116b2cec67#.3vui844dt)):
   ```bash
   # Enables it globally for all repos
   git config --global rerere.enabled true
   # Enables it only for the enterprise repo
   cd <enterprise-repo>
   git config rerere.enabled true
   ```
2. You have set up the `community` remote on your enterprise as
   [described in CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/citusdata/citus-enterprise/blob/enterprise-master/CONTRIBUTING.md#merging-community-changes-onto-enterprise).

#### Important notes on `git rerere`

This is very useful as it will make sure git will automatically redo merges that
you have done before. However, this has a downside too. It will also redo merges

> that you did, but that were incorrect. Two work around this you can use these

Reviewer 4: What is an incorrect merge?

Author: i.e. merges that you did, but later you found out you merged it in an incorrect way, e.g. you kept both chunks, but should have removed one.

is `$PR_BRANCH`, we will refer to `$PR_BRANCH` on community as
`community/$PR_BRANCH` and on enterprise as `enterprise/$PR_BRANCH`. If the
job already passes, you are done, nothing further required! Otherwise follow the

> below steps.

Reviewer 3: Does it make sense to explain when the job will pass so that people have an idea of what this job is checking?

- The job will fail if enterprise/$PR_BRANCH is not ancestor of community/$PR_BRANCH
- The job will fail if merging community/$PR_BRANCH to enterprise-master creates conflicts.

IMPORTANT: Before continuing with the real steps make sure you have enabled
`git rerere` ([docs](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rerere), [very useful blog](https://medium.com/@porteneuve/fix-conflicts-only-once-with-git-rerere-7d116b2cec67#.3vui844dt)) in your global git config (you only have to do this once):

> 

Reviewer 3: maybe also mention the downside of this

`check-merge-to-enterprise` check as long as they don't have a conflict with
`enterprise-master`.

### What to do when your branch got outdated?

So there's one issue that can occur. Your branch will become outdated with

> master and you have to make it up to date. There's two ways to do this using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
master and you have to make it up to date. There are two ways to do this using
```

`git merge` or `git rebase`. As usual, `git merge` is a bit easier than `git
rebase`, but clutters git history. This section will explain both. If you don't
know which one makes the most sense, start with `git rebase`, if for whatever

> reason this doesn't work feel free to fall back to `git merge`.

Reviewer 3: feel free to `rebase --abort` and fall back to `git merge`.

#### Updating both branches with `git rebase`

> In the community repo:

Reviewer 3: In the community repo, to update the outdated branch:

```bash
git checkout $PR_BRANCH
git pull origin master --rebase
git push --force-with-lease
```

In the enterprise repo:

```bash

> git checkout $PR_BRANCH

Reviewer 2: Since both community and enterprise have the branch with the same name, it is best to set origin here.

Author: This is merely to ensure you are on the right branch, so that this code is copy-pastable. Changing it to `git checkout origin/$PR_BRANCH` would checkout the commit, but not the branch. So that would not work. Maybe you mean something else and I am misunderstanding.

Reviewer 2: I think of `git checkout -b $PR_BRANCH -t origin/$PR_BRANCH` which fails if there is already a local branch with the given name.

I can not think of a better alternative, so we can keep it as it is

git fetch community
git rebase community/$PR_BRANCH --preserve-merges
```

> Automatic merge might have fail with the above command. However, because of `git

Reviewer 3: fail -> failed

rerere` it should have re-applied your original merge resolution. If this is
indeed the case it should show something like this in the output of the previous
command (note the `Resolved ...` line):
```

> CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in .circleci/config.yml
> Resolved '.circleci/config.yml' using previous resolution.
> Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result.
> Error redoing merge 79a899e5b243696fd1a2754d612ae2eca817cdc1

Reviewer: Maybe:

```suggestion
CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in <file_path>
Resolved '<file_path>' using previous resolution.
Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result.
Error redoing merge <merge_sha>
```

```

Confirm that the merge conflict is indeed resolved correctly. In that case you

> can do the following

Reviewer 3: following:

```bash
# Add files that were conflicting
git add "$(git diff --name-only --diff-filter=U)"
git rebase --continue
git push --force-with-lease
```

> #### Updating both branches with `git merge`

Reviewer: This part closes https://github.com/citusdata/citus/pull/4066, thanks

In the community repo:

```bash
git checkout $PR_BRANCH

> git pull origin master

Reviewer 3: does this line merge master to current branch or do we need `git merge master` as well? Also it could be nice to mention that in case of conflicts that will need to be fixed to be even more explicit :)

Author: made this clearer now, by splitting it in explicit `fetch` and `merge`

git push
```

In the enterprise repo:

```bash

> git checkout $PR_BRANCH

Reviewer 2: Since both community and enterprise have the branch with the same name, it is best to set origin here.

`check-merge-to-enterprise` check as long as they don't have a conflict with
`enterprise-master`.

### What to do when your branch got outdated?

So there's one issue that can occur. Your branch will become outdated with
master and you have to make it up to date. There are two ways to do this using
`git merge` or `git rebase`. As usual, `git merge` is a bit easier than `git
rebase`, but clutters git history. This section will explain both. If you don't
know which one makes the most sense, start with `git rebase`. If for whatever
reason this doesn't work feel free to fall back to `git merge`, by using
`git rebase --abort`.

#### Updating both branches with `git rebase`

In the community repo, first update the outdated branch using `rebase`:

```bash
git checkout $PR_BRANCH
# Keep a backup in case you want to fallback to the merge approach
git checkout -b ${PR_BRANCH}-backup
git checkout $PR_BRANCH
# Actually update the branch
git fetch origin
git rebase origin/master

> git push --force-with-lease

Reviewer: lets be more specific,

```suggestion
git push origin $PR_BRANCH --force-with-lease
```

`enterprise-master`.

### What to do when your branch got outdated?

So there's one issue that can occur. Your branch will become outdated with
master and you have to make it up to date. There are two ways to do this using
`git merge` or `git rebase`. As usual, `git merge` is a bit easier than `git
rebase`, but clutters git history. This section will explain both. If you don't
know which one makes the most sense, start with `git rebase`. It's possible that
for whatever reason this doesn't work or becomes very complex, for instance when
new merge conflicts appear. Feel free to fall back to `git merge` in that case,
by using `git rebase --abort`.

#### Updating both branches with `git rebase`

In the community repo, first update the outdated branch using `rebase`:

```bash
git checkout $PR_BRANCH
# Keep a backup in case you want to fallback to the merge approach
git checkout -b ${PR_BRANCH}-backup
git checkout $PR_BRANCH
# Actually update the branch
git fetch origin
git rebase origin/master
git push origin $PR_BRANCH --force-with-lease
```

In the enterprise repo, rebase onto the new community branch with
`--preserve-merges`:

```bash

> git checkout $PR_BRANCH

Reviewer 3: it might be good to create a backup branch here as well.

Author: I didn't put it there, since here you would normally revert to the original by doing `git rebase --abort`. If `rebase` succeeded you are done. In the rare case where after you are done you find out that something is bad, there's always `git reset origin/$PR_BRANCH` or `git reflog`.
